---
title: "Revisiting Temporal Blocking Stencil Optimizations"
collection: conference
permalink: /publication/2023-06-21-ebisu
# excerpt: 'This paper is about fixing template issue #693.'
date: 2023-06-21~23
venue: 'ICS 23: Proceedings of the 37th International Conference on Supercomputing'
paperurl: 'https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3577193.3593716'
citation: 'Lingqi Zhang, Mohamed Wahib, Peng Chen, Jintao Meng, Xiao Wang, Toshio Endo, and Satoshi Matsuoka. 2023. Revisiting Temporal Blocking Stencil Optimizations. In Proceedings of the 37th International Conference on Supercomputing (ICS 23). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 251–263. https://doi.org/10.1145/3577193.3593716.'
---

Iterative stencils are used widely across the spectrum of High Performance Computing (HPC) applications. Many efforts have been put into optimizing stencil GPU kernels, given the prevalence of GPU-accelerated supercomputers. To improve the data locality, temporal blocking is an optimization that combines a batch of time steps to process them together. Under the observation that GPUs are evolving to resemble CPUs in some aspects, we revisit temporal blocking optimizations for GPUs. We explore how temporal blocking schemes can be adapted to the new features in the recent Nvidia GPUs, including large scratchpad memory, hardware prefetching, and device-wide synchronization. We propose a novel temporal blocking method, EBISU, which champions low device occupancy to drive aggressive deep temporal blocking on large tiles that are executed tile-by-tile. We compare EBISU with state-of-the-art temporal blocking libraries: STENCILGEN and AN5D. We also compare with state-of-the-art stencil auto-tuning tools that are equipped with temporal blocking optimizations: ARTEMIS and DRSTENCIL. Over a wide range of stencil benchmarks, EBISU achieves speedups up to 2.53x and a geometric mean speedup of 1.49x over the best state-of-the-art performance in each stencil benchmark.
